# Minecraft - Custom Functions

Custom function can be developed that allow players to enhance their builds. Some example functions
have been include in `/functions` (and some placeholder functions for in-place updating) and these
can be deployed using:

```sh
# for a local deployment:
docker cp functions/{NAMESPACE} mc:/data/behavior_packs/vanilla/functions/
# for a cluster deployment:
kubectl cp /minecraft/functions/{NAMESPACE} $POD:/data/behavior_packs/vanilla/functions
```

If you add new functions to the server, this will require a server restart for them to be loaded.
However, if you update an existing function, you only need to run 
[`/reload'](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Commands/reload) from your client.

Current, for simplicity, these functions are deployed to an existing 
[behavior pack](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Tutorials/Creating_behavior_packs). If further
functions are developed, it may be worth creating a seperate behavior pack project.

## Generating Custom Functions with Python

Minecraft custom functions simply a list of commands with no other programming constructs. I have
starting experimenting with generating these functions using a python script. For example, this
project contains `domes.py` that generates a set of functions that create glass domes with varying
sizes and colours. A container has been provided with the required python libraries and can be
built and run with `docker-compose`:

```sh
# dome
docker-compose run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) dome-java

# ring
docker-compose run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) ring-java

# cloudtree
docker-compose run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) cloudtree-java

# maze
docker-compose run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) cloudtree-java
```

The dome/ring size and material can be varied by editing the configuration files. 
Also bedrock versions of the functions can be generated by swapping in the `-bedrock` suffix (if available):

```sh
# dome
docker-compose run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) dome-bedrock
```

## Copying structures between worlds.

As you can't easily copy/paste structures between bedrock world, a tool has been developed to scan
a world for structure blocks and converts the structures of any it finds to a set of bedrock
functions as follows:

```sh
minecraftfunctions structure bedrock $PATH_TO_BEDROCK_WORLD $PATH_FOR_BEDROCK_FUNCTIONS $PWD/config/structure.yaml
```
